Add WAL content for 2.0 release (#499)
Percona-Lab/postgres: contrib/pg_tde/documentation/docs/index/tde-limitations.md

# Limitations of pg_tde

> The following limitations apply to the current release:

Reviewer: IMHO, it would be useful to specify the release version here instead of the common "current"

Author: oh yeah! thank you

* PostgreSQL’s internal system tables, which include statistics and metadata, are not encrypted.
* `pg_createsubscriber` is not supported.

## WAL encryption tool support

The following tools and extensions in Percona Distribution for PostgreSQL have been tested and verified to work with `pg_tde` WAL encryption:

??? note "Click to expand"
    * Patroni
    * `pg_basebackup` (with `--wal-method=stream`)
    * `pg_resetwal`
    * `pg_rewind`
    * `pg_upgrade`
    * `pg_waldump`

>     * pgBackRest

Reviewer: why is this not code-indented?

Author: fixed

## Next steps

Check which PostgreSQL versions and deployment types are compatible with `pg_tde` before planning your installation.

[View the versions and supported deployments :material-arrow-right:](supported-versions.md){.md-button}

> Begin the installation process when you’re ready to set up encryption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Begin the installation process when you're ready to set up encryption.
```

# Limitations of pg_tde

> Limitations of `pg_tde` (applies to release {{release}}):

Reviewer 2: Doesn't all of the documentation only apply to this release? Feels like a bit weird thing to point out here specifcally, but maybe the idea is to be very clear to people who arrive in the future to the wrong version.

Author: Good catch yeah! I thought of adding the note because the limitations in 1.0 and 2.0 differ, and we want to make sure users don’t confuse them. Since the 1.0 docs will remain archived in Git but often still surface in searches, I thought maybe the explicit version reference helps users quickly confirm they’re looking at the right release if that makes sense.

Reviewer 2: Maybe  make it short by just writing "Limitations of pg_tde 2.0".

Author: Done!

* PostgreSQL’s internal system tables, which include statistics and metadata, are not encrypted.
* `pg_createsubscriber` is not supported.

> * WAL shipping standby (warm standby) is not supported with WAL encryption. You can instead use [Streaming Replication with `tde_heap`](../replication.md), which is supported with encrypted WAL.

Reviewer 2: This is not true. What is not supported is something much more specific which barely deserves a mention but maybe does. Let's keep that as a separate PR.

It should almost be on the architecture page if anywhere. Or maybe on the page which documents our archive and restore helpers.

Author: Hmm I see, thank you for clarifying that! I removed the WAL shipping mention.

> 

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't we mention that temporary files are not encrypted?

Author: Just to confirm we're talking about `work_mem` spillover or something else? If that's the case I propose adding this:

* Temporary files created when queries exceed `work_mem` are not encrypted. These files may persist if the query runs for a long time or the server crashes which can expose sensitive data in plaintext on disk.

We need to be specific when asking which temp files are not encrypted. 🤔

Author: Added!

## WAL encryption tool support

The following tools and extensions in Percona Distribution for PostgreSQL have been tested and verified to work with `pg_tde` WAL encryption:

> ??? note "Click to expand"

Reviewer 2: Technically a lot more tools have been tested but I assume these are the ones which touch the WAL?

Author: Yep! Specifically from the Tooling support for encrypted WAL spreadsheet. As a new user I'd appreciate having this clear and in the open, hope it helps others too!

>     * Patroni

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should explain which configs because we certainly do not support all.

Author: added an ## Example Patroni configuration subtopic and linked to Patroni mention in the WAL compatibility list

>     * `pg_basebackup` (with `--wal-method=stream`)

Reviewer 2: Also with `--wal-method=none` but maybe too obvious?

Author: never a bad thing to add more info! Saves the user a question they would have for our support, but since we're talking about WAL encryption specifically, would `--wal-method=none` be useful here?

Reviewer 2: Yes! You use `--wal-method=none` if you want to build your own pgBackRest. The idea is that you set `archive_command` to somehting and start archiving WAL and then run `pg_basebackup` with `--wal-method=none` that way you can restore the backup by combining it with the archived WAL files.

Author: Great explanation, thank you, now I get it!

I added the none method and a link to our basebackup topic if the user wants more info:

* `pg_basebackup` (with `--wal-method=stream` or `--wal-method=none`), for details on using `pg_basebackup` with WAL encryption, see [Backup with WAL encryption enabled](../how-to/backup-wal-enabled.md)

Note: the link doesn't 'work' because we didn't merge yet but it's the correct path.

    * `pg_resetwal`
    * `pg_rewind`
    * `pg_upgrade`
    * `pg_waldump`

>     * `pgBackRest`

Reviewer 2: The tool should probably not be in code format since the command line tool is called `pgbackrest`.

Author: Fixed!
